>> Kent C. Dodds: So, before JEST entered
my life, code coverage was always,
it was really important that I always
set up code coverage for my staff.
But it normally involved installing at
least six dependencies and trying to wire
them altogether, and configure them
in ways that were really annoying.
Now that JEST is in my life,
that's all it takes.
Yay, I love you Jest, it's so great.
So part of the reason why it's so
complicated before, for code coverage,
is because we're transpilling our code.
And so the tools at the time
were not able to figure
out how to get my
non-transpiled code covered.
Now it just kind of takes care of all
that stuff for me and it's just magic so
I run MPMT now with a dash dash coverage
and it will give me a report of coverage.
So that's kind of nice.
And I can open the coverage
folder that I created so
that appeared right here, coverage.
And instead of that, it's alcov report,
index Html, pop that open.
And here we go,
that's our coverage report.
Looks like autoscaling test, test we
never actually run componented update,
so we should probably
run some more tests for
that.
>> Kent C. Dodds: So this is kinda fun.
The calculator definitely needs some work.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
that all just comes for free.
Now there is one problem here and
that is we are reporting coverage for
our test files.
And that kind of changes what the coverage
report means, the overall coverage number.
So this is actually, because our
overall coverage is low, the test files
are actually bringing our overall coverage
report higher than we think that it is.
Or than it should be.
Because it's like you're tests aren't what
you're trying to measure coverage for.
So add in including those in the coverage
report, not something you want.
And by default the test files
themselves will not be included, but
yeah, we don't want our supporting
test files to include it either.
So we can fix this in our
jest configuration with,
hold on a second, with the property,
collect coverage from and
this will be an array of where we want.
It's a white list of files that we
want to collect coverage from and
for us we can do anything that matches
this glob, anything inside the source JS,
and then we can run MPMT.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
now it's only the stuff that's
in the source directory.
But it still is excluding our tests.
There's a blacklist version of this as
well, and by default that includes your
tests.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Cool, so
one other thing about coverage,
we do not have great coverage today.
And that's probably,
especially if you're just getting started
in writing your test for your app,
it's probably gonna be really, really low.
And you don't really want your coverage to
dip below a certain point, especially when
you're bringing tests into an existing
application with a team of developers,
you wanna make sure that
it doesn't ever dip lower.
It can stay the same, if you're gonna
add code, just test it while you add it.
And then the coverage will stay the same,
but I don't want it to go any lower.
And so
we can make sure that happens by adding
a coverageThreshold.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
this is actually a very versatile option,
you can specify thresholds for
specific files or groups of files,
like it's pretty, pretty cool.
So if there is a section of the after
like, this should never ever ever break.
So you are like 100%
code coverage in here or
something like 95% co coverage always
in this section of the app or for
this file because it's really complicated,
something like that.
For us and
most of the times I just do global and
this will just apply to
these numbers at the top.
Overall, together what should
those numbers be like?
And so when I'm setting up code coverage,
I look at, or setting up this threshold,
I look at what the current numbers are and
I do 2% lower than that.
Just to give us a little bit of wiggle
room as we're getting started with that.
So, I'll say statements is, let's see,
18, and branches, wait is it?
Goodness, now I forgot if it's branches or
branch.
Branches, like pretty sure it's branches,
is 10 and see, this is.
I need to see it lined up.
Functions is 19, and lines is 18.
So, it doesn't have to be totally perfect,
exact, but.
Cool, so everything's working.
Let's see what happens if,
lets say we set branches to 13 and
then someone bumped it down to 12.
Made some changes, added some branches,
and now this script will actually fail.
So it would fail in CI and
it'd say hey you have your
coverage threshold set to 13% but
it's actually at 12 so add some more
tests for cover those branches.
So we're talking about this statements,
branches, functions line, so let me just
show you really quick in this coverage
report what those different things are.
So right here, this is considered
a branch, and it's also a statement.
So this line is a statement itself,
and this is the consequent.
Here's maybe a better example.
You've got your if statement, this is
the consequent, this is the alternate.
Neither one of those branches is covered
and so you get 0% for that branch.
Well you get 0% for this branch and
0% for that one, it's two branches.
And then each one of these
is a also a statement.
This is a function, so we're not
getting coverage for the function.
As you can see,
the highlighting isn't perfect,
and that's a poor request
waiting to happen.